All right, it's back
live
here. And we keep working on
terraform. Yeah. So, that does really
freaking well that uh that eval. But
presumably somewhere just like within
some small number of variations.
Yeah, there's there's we I can sweep it
sub 16,000. Yeah, this so this was
trained with
uh eight and then now this is eval with
32 which is
amusing. Yeah, they're
terraforming like they're working on
it. Go worker bees.
You said 32 now. I think they're 32 in
here. They're like working on this
island
here. And this one down at the bottom. I
still think they're stacking too high.
Right here. They are for sure. On on
middle left. Yeah, right here. Middle
left definitely.
From a shader perspective, what should
it look after they've taken away all of
the hill of the existing? If that's the
goal. Should it be dark? It's like the
moss green that it currently is on the
bottom or whatever.
Think that it's
like
either bright green or you just barely
see like the environment peeking through
depending on if it's like slightly over
or slightly
under. I mean, they're
trying here. Let's rerun this full
training now with the 32 agents.
Oh, I thought that was the 32. No, we
trained to eight and eval 32.
Oh, okay.
Okay. Well, it's way faster to start up
now, which is nice.
Oh, you know what? I bet you they can't
see the delta very
well. I think I figured out why they're
stacking too
high. So,
like it's target map.
minus
map. So if target map is lower, this
becomes a negative number and then this
gets put into a
char. So you think it's being
constrained too much?
I think it should be like
120 or 128. It should be like
one something like
this. We'll try before and after with
this. You see, I think it was not I
think it was missing half the delta.
Uh hello. Hey, how's it going?
Good. Um so I was able to find the bug
and why that is happening with like the
num ends uh numb workers I mean. Um and
it seems to be like a bigger issue than
just numb uh yeah it's probably a
parsing bug, right?
It's a it's a it well it applies to any
argument that is two types of uh that
can be two types uh two data types. So
with for example with um num workers it
can be a string which is auto or it can
be an int. Um and the problem you're
having specifically with the weird you
get what I'm saying? Huh?
That's weird because you're you're
parsing it. So when you have the default
config. Yeah, I see. Cuz then you add
the type in. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
That's super obnoxious.
Mhm. I will I don't know what to do
about that. I'll have to think of what
to do. That That's kind of I I I don't
think I can bring like I I can band-aid
fix it, but it's not really like I think
I'll
just I'll probably just have to as
literally bal again or something.
Well, no, because well, that's the
thing. You are um getting a second time.
Also, terraforming with 32 bulldozers.
Oh, let me see that. I'll pull up your
stream real quick. Oh, you're sh
screening. Okay. You know, I'm not fully
convinced it's doing better.
Well, we didn't fix the ops yet either.
It's Look, it's building over here. Look
at this. It's filling in this island.
I can't I can't see your cursor. And
this one. Oh, that's a Discord bug.
Cursor, I guess, is on stream.
Yeah, because the bet also had that
issue. I guess it's a Linux thing cuz uh
we're both like you're using uh Ubuntu,
I'm using Debian.
Okay, we're going to do this again. Uh
and now hopefully So can you explain the
your obs change? I don't understand like
how that would have made a difference.
I did like target minus uh source
uh and then I I scale it from 0 to 255
and then it gets assigned to an unsigned
char.
Okay. So if it's negative then it just
gets cropped to zero or possibly
undefined behavior.
because char can only be 0 to
285. So, how did you go about fixing
that? Did you subtract it by 128 to
start?
Yeah, kind of. Um, now to be fair,
technically we could just
go we could do a sign char instead of a
unsigned char, which is int 8. That
might be the better
effect. We'll see if it does any
better. Should make them stop
overstacking.
at a low level. Is that what casting
from float to char does automatically
like the cast function?
Well, it's got to produce a valid char,
right? It just divi it just divides it
into that range of values. It doesn't.
It just it it'll round by default.
I actually manually scale it to get it
into the reasonable range.
So what we can do
with so you know I mean so from what I
see like you are using auto as like a
trigger to an if statement a lot of
times like that's how you use
auto.
So what you can do
is I'm interested to know how much you
are using auto.
Um let me search. So let's
do okay. So using it
here. Auto. No no like this. Yeah.
photo. Okay. You were using it
here. Yeah.
So, yeah.
So, no idea from what I see.
See if that scale.
The average batch of data is now only
coming from one
environment and 32 32 agents.
What?
When you see n equals 32, there 32
agents in one end. It means that that
log is just like one ep one environment
episode worth of data.
No, they get average. So it should be 32
32 agents.
N doesn't get averaged.
Uh and GPU drive it's the same thing
too. But I set up 1024 agents. N is
1024. Even if I have 16 workers and 16
copies
getting all the logs at the same time.
But so look at this. But you're saying
it should be a multiple. Oh, that looks
better. That looks better.
I'm think I'm seeing less stacking.
There shouldn't be any now.
I don't see anything.
I'm questioning middle right a little
bit
maybe, but it might just be filling it
in and that is the high point that's
necessary.
Why they don't fill in these like other
islands down at the bottom?
You think they're just too far? Could
be. Like it just doesn't see it and it's
like screw down here. This and that.
There's easier reward otherwise
maybe now. They should be filling stuff
in. It feels like they've kind of slowed
down. There a bunch of them
stuck. They get unstuck though
automatically anyways. Maybe that's it.
Maybe they just keep going to like try
to put the stuff in and they get
stuck. Oh, there's some stacking at the
top top left or middle left. Yeah, I see
that. They're building tower of babel.
Working on
it.
Yeah, I think the odds that Babel was
created as part of the target is
extremely low.
Actually, sentient.
Yeah, dude. We're building aliens now on
Mars.
It turns out Puffer just built first AGI
with a 100K 150k parameter network or
whatever 166K is this
network. I mean isn't like most of
robotics RL?
Yeah, good chunk of it.
Yeah. So, I mean, it's probably a good
um guess that like the Mars rover and
all that is probably Arald or something.
No, they don't. They they are like super
super like tightly tight uh tightly
coded classic control, I'm pretty sure.
So, like you can't debug your RL. Yeah,
you can't debug your RL when it breaks
on Mars. Yeah. Yeah, good point. Yeah.
They have like ridiculously defensive
coding guidelines. Like you can't like
you can't have an if statement else or
something. No recursion too. uh [__]
recursion anyways. But like yeah,
you know, one concept I was thinking of
is I don't know if it is relevant, but
if we ranked areas to start targets in
I I actually don't understand why
there's like nothing on like this
island.
Like there's many of these islands that
they're just ignoring entirely.
Yeah. I don't know why that it could be
an ops
bug. Yeah, they should be filling this
thing in. So like
there's quite possibly
obs. I mean
like this whole island like they're
filling in. You see it's getting lighter
green because it's getting shallower and
then they just ignore this one. And
they're still making tower babble over
here. This one for some reason. I wonder
if there's a reason that they're doing
that. They should be getting negative
reward.
Yep. Same thing is happening in batch
size like with the string thing. Bugs
everywhere, man.
Yeah.
Um, for that I think what you can do,
um, I guess this is another question. Do
you only use um like for auto? From what
I'm seeing, all it is is like you use
auto for a numeric variable that has uh
kind of like a default dynamic default
value pretty much. Yeah.
So to fix that, I think what you just do
is you make it so that
um basically
um like in the uh puffer RL um when you
have the um add
argument
argument. Yeah. when you do the the
config loading and you
dynamically add arguments here with the
dynamic help menu from config. Um what
you can do is you can just do a very
simple like if statement for
uh like the type do like a you know if
auto oh yeah you're right type is int or
something like that you
know do you think that would be a good
fix except I think there's int and float
but yeah maybe I mean we can make it
float and the intulations Python you
know doesn't really care except when it
does
Yo, Spencer, why is it like it very
quickly figures out like a few of these?
I'm looking at it and like it very
quickly starts some of these islands and
then it just
like kind of like pitters out. I don't
know.
Um, are we confident that the total sum
of
dirt is the same total sum on the other
end?
Well, no, but there's plenty of dirt to
go around.
Like you can see all these all these
islands like poking
through. Well, it's a little hard for me
to tell which islands
are like I know there's new islands and
I guess there's I guess it just reset a
second ago. So everything currently is
supposed to be is old now, right? It
just should be murdering all of these
islands.
like it fills in this one
here. Here, let me switch to the Twitch
stream so I can see your cursor flying
around.
Okay. Why would this not being able to
see? It either can't see it or thinks
it's not going to get reward from it or
it's easier to get something else.
kind of want to like look at
this on the
um let's see terraform fast.
I want to be able to look at
this. All right. So like
here, this means
that there's overlap between this
formation and the goal. So
like these two should be very close
together.
I think light green is like these must
be like near flat, right? It's like
nearly matches the target, I
believe. What if all those things are
still overlapping with the existing
target?
like and if it if it pulls it away from
that mountain, it's actually losing.
It's it's getting penalized because it's
already overlap, right?
Well, when you zoom in, it kind of looks
like they are.
It does. I don't know
why. It just looks like there's more of
them, but it's still all on the same
one.
I've like summed it or something
weird. Cal everything.
You copy
the You copy a rig
map. How's this
work? Wait, where does the rig map get
copied?
Huh? in pearland noise
wouldn't make
impl noiseise it's past the pointer and
it's actively doing things to it where
in pearl and noise it's not
where is it past where is it past. Oh,
cuz Yeah, you just you fill in the
original map and then you copy the
original to the to just map.
Yeah, that's fine.
Wait, but how is map regular map used?
Like just map
right here. So in reset you copy a rig
map into map.
Okay. Maybe we need to like
Welcome real learner. We are uh we have
a terraforming environment that we are
trying to figure
out what is wrong with. The goal is to
have a bunch of bulldozers turn one map
into another with
RL. What could be the issue?
We also did uh
where's the other thing that we did
earlier today? We're good.
Or I don't know what you called it. We
also made this earlier today, which is
pretty freaking
awesome. And been some branch
3. What are they doing there? They're
trying They're trying to go to the star
that matches their color and then they
change colors when they get
there. Did that
today. Um, so I have a quick hack
Spencer that we can do.
are just going to copy over and change
the
color. And I have
to just place it up by 10.
Rio puffer ocean.
Yes. Be there.
Are you checking your fork or something?
If he's on his own fork, it's probably
that
right here. Well, I don't know. We We've
pushed it quite often to to there for
I'm not holding out on
you. Something seems screw with
this that like
We just like displace this up way
more.
Oh, I think it's just misleading
rendering.
Spencer cuz
like Okay. So, like look at this.
There's
a Maybe instead of having them overlaid,
we should have them entirely two two
separate maps side by side.
I'm trying to figure out why this
translation
is. Isn't this translated up
completely? This is not translating it
upward the way I would
expect. Oh, you know why? I see.
This will do
it. That'll
seg. Actually, that'll just f
There we go. So, this shifts it up. You
see? So, this shifts this map
upwards. And we actually can tell that
it's like it's very hard to see geometry
at all on this thing.
Yeah, I can't see
[__] Let's like with these separate.
Let's make this actually
Okay. So, now it's starting to come
back, but it's still
iffy.
Oh, the
fragment. Can I do
it? Yeah. Okay, there we
go. So, now we can see both, right?
See?
Yeah, I think we're okay with that
now. And we can change the displacement
to be
like something that's like closer.
So it's
like maybe
this. So definitely is the case then
that it wasn't filling the stuff in,
right?
Yeah, for sure. It was filling. It was
honestly just doing the same thing. I
think
the parallax effect on this is really
freaking cool.
They're different
heights. I mean, I have all sorts of
things I can do on the viz side. The
question is
why why is it not filling in?
You want to do a Okay. So, now that this
is fixed on this, rebuild and show the
eval again.
I mean, it's eating this bad stuff,
right? Okay. Now, it seems correct. It's
eating away and it should be nothing
thereafter.
It's actually It is eating it.
I mean, it looks substantially better at
least from this
viz. I mean, it's murdering that one
area. It's taking a while, but
but like there's nothing here at all.
Yeah, that has been ignored. The entire
bottom or middle left has been ignored.
Can we get a Let's find some guys trying
to do autonomous
uh autonomous snowshaping for like ski
lodges.
Okay. Yeah. Have it build a halfpipe.
I talked to the friend uh who owns a
ranch. He said they they would want to
be doing it for some like taking out a
brush with dozers for ranch maintenance.
It's still making the tower
available. Yeah, there it is. At least
it's like
better. Like look at this.
Okay. So, it still gets it it will get a
reward simultaneously
for when it pulls from an existing area
and places it. It should get a reward
for both because it's just deltas,
right? Yeah.
That's the only reward we're giving it.
Yeah, think so.
I could push it and you could set up
some sweets.
I think you got to go to dinner.
I do.
Um, not quite. Yeah, but pretty
close. I still got to drive like 30
minutes back to my house.
I mean, it could be a Pam's thing. I
mean, possibly.
Do you drive like 30 minutes just to go
to like an office?
Yeah, it's my my family's office. Oh,
dang. They're far.
Uh, not in terms of like Texas driving
times. That's like very like chill. Like
20 30 minute drives are like nothing.
Dude, it's too just too hard to go like
out to a separate building to like go to
my gym so it's like in the same room.
Straight up.
I mean that's fair. I need to go back to
the gym.
Yeah, I need then I have to go to a gym.
Gym is good.
It is. But I mean, if you can't really
go to a gym, you can also do a lot of
really good body weight stuff. So much
better. I feel like gym gym is superior.
I mean, depends on what your definition
of superior is. Well, I it's superior in
the sense that every mo every morning I
get up, I put the coffee pot on, and uh
I deadlift the bar behind me just once.
Yeah. Just to wake up. But that's But
that's because you live in a gym. Like
most people, you know, have to travel
there. Like and that's like if if the
gym is like 30 minutes away, that's not
very good.
I mean, you to be fair, you you just you
kind of just need like a barbell and
some plates. Mhm. That's generally
pretty. And dumbbells cuz how are you
going to do like lateral raises? Yeah.
Do you just lateral raise the bar?
Lateral raise. Yeah, it's a bar.
Um, okay. I think what would be
something that would be screwing with
this?
Um, I I feel like the obs are pretty
chill. I
mean, maybe the compressing thing is
still wrong. Could
be. I think when you go to dinner, I'm
going to spend hourish on this and I'm
going to try to
uh I'm gonna try to make like a really
nice shader that'll like tell us.
I'm going to push this though so that
you can do sweeps.
Yeah, just go ahead and push it. I'll
let me just get some sweeps going and
I'll get like some parameters picked and
such. Okay. A quick question. Um the so
you know how you have like the sweep
something
um that is not like an argument that you
can pass right? What like sweep like the
sweep.vac.nums and then like there's a
scale argument there. That thing you
can't pass through like the command
line. Oh, you technically can. I don't
know why you'd want to, but you can.
Yeah. So it's not like really useful.
You can say like to pass it like that,
right?
I mean you can do it. Yes. Um so what's
scale? Is scale a float?
Uh yeah.
Yeah. So from what I see scale is the
only like auto float like um um
something that you use auto for that is
float. Everything else looks to be like
an like bat size like
um num workers from what I see you use
batch size numbum workers and that's
about it for
okay that's that is pushed I also had
forgotten to push the puffer image so
now you have the puffer image pushed
so anybody who wants to build some m you
have the puffer er assets now. Yeah.
Did you just do that right now? I just
pulled the second I forgot to I'd
forgotten to add the assets in.
Uh did I receive them? They're in
resources or what? Uh resources. I see
the
shaders. Ah, you probably didn't pull
again.
Oh, I always forget this. That's my
fork. Must sink.
There you go.
must sink
for honor and glory.
So, uh, Joseph, would you like me to
like PR real quick? Like, uh, create a
PR for a, uh, fix like that. Okay. Yeah,
would be good.
Okay. I want to get the shader
done. I want to get this damn shader
done.
Okie
do. What do I want to sweep? Let's see
the
reset
number
scaling. Anything else?
I can't sweep vision because that screws
with OP
size. We'll start with those two for
now. Sure. Fine.
how annoying it is to do uh to
send map data to shaders.
Okay. Yeah, that's
Ah, it's like super annoying to do this,
but it's fine. Figure it out.
Wait a
second. Quick question. Um, so from what
I see here,
um, most of the auto, um, well, all of
them, all of the auto, um, like
variables or parameters that use auto
are only positive. They can only be
positive
numbers, unless scale. Can scale be is
it valid for scale to be a negative? No,
not at the moment. But that's going to
be a really shitty bug to catch if we
like round or do something dumb. Well,
what I was thinking is more just like
instead of auto do like a negative one
and then that, you know. Yeah, but
that's really confusing to see in a
config. Yes, correct,
especially for
spoiled spoiled shitty Python
programmers.
[Music]
Is uh distribution discrete of a viable
thing?
What for sweeps or do I have to do
uniform? Uh there's no discrete. There
is a I believe there's an
uniform jacket.
I think it's just uniform and then
there's log
normal. There's some sort of int format
I
believe. So I think that this lets us
load in
load in the data. Oh no, you're right.
There is in
uniform. Oh, this one I can mess with
Horizon. Turn that back on.
And I can sweep mini batch sides
again. I guess I can sweep
back that.
Okay. So what is it intore? Yeah.
Okay, I think this is probably
reasonable. 50 million to 300
million. First run this to see if it
actually trains.
about what score did you get on this
again?
Uh 20 is 30 maybe. 20 is 30.
Spencer's working on uh Terraform at the
moment. I'm working on shader for it.
He's working on uh setting up
sweeps. He's
good. I got to get this going and then
head
out. Got to eat. Yeah, I got to eat. And
I got to put on non hobo clothing.
I literally just got up and started
working on this stuff. I got to finish
this and shower and chill for the rest
of the
evening. That's the plan.
That's a good plan.
It's really weird how the learning on
this is so spiky.
It's the because it randomly resets,
dude. The resets are random. That's
why
now they're doing this, right? Like
Yeah, I don't think I broke anything. It
looks like it's still hovering in the
range of like 18 to 22. two.
God, the amount of times I have to
export this Neptune token is ungodly.
Are you using VS Code or like cursor or
anything like that?
I'm just in one of the boxes. Got cursor
muted as a keyword on X.
Let's see. Like bets
um by the reference or whatever.
Oh my
god. Just Just stop with the [__]
language models, all right? They're bad.
They can't code. Just stop.
Who's taking
what? Who's talking? We've got uh some
folks in the Discord
now.
Contributors. Okay, that
runs. Follow this without
Low
mode. This what I think it is. Is this
actually
correct? Actually might be
something. Hard to say.
All right, I'm going to watch it for
like two or three runs to see if it
actually samples something and then I'm
going to
go I'll uh let me link you the
thingy. This is doing
Jack. Oh, wait.
texture and form sampler
2D
fault. Big fault.
That's funny. You seg fault if you do
uh that shader.
Frag position times
width. Wait, frag. Maybe it's not times
width.
Oh, it's so nice when experiments run
fast. Maybe it's divi. Isn't it divided
by the sampler takes relic
cords? I
believe maybe it's
this. Still no, huh?
Yeah, this is definitely divide by
width, divide by height.
Hey. Oh, wait.
Still
Noah, the sweep seems to be sweeping. I
linked it in the general chat and
uh No, I didn't put it on
T-Max.
GG. RIP.
Why is it that I put this thing in green
and it still comes out
in
bugs? I got to tell you, it drives me
nuts when like like Oh yeah, thing
itches a little bit. whatever. But like
when one in every 20 times that
something itches, it is actually a bug
crawling on you, like you get paranoid.
Bugs everywhere.
I mean, this is like sampling
something, but I don't know what it
is. Oh, you dummy. You're sampling the
terrain.
Yeah, this is actually working.
Wait, but if it's actually working, it
wouldn't just be in it would it's in the
wrong freaking color. So, how's that
make any sense,
dummy? It doesn't, right? The fact that
you can just see
through. All right, now sweep is live.
Nice.
like the correct sweep.
All right, I'll see you later. Yes,
Spencer. Bizarre.
I'm trying to get this like overlay uh a
better like overlay shader. It'll show
you like the actual gap between target
and the source.
Oh, like
between ah like between the final
product and what it's currently
actually
like this is
rendering cuz I can see that underneath
is the other
one. So
like that means this is kind of
rendering the thing I want. But like I
don't know
why it like it doesn't seem to matter
what I put here when I put the terrain
height in.
You sure? Like if I put here if I just
put like one, this will come out blue.
Okay. But then if I put 0.5 I think
that's an that's alpha. No. Yes, that is
alpha. Yes. So, but then like when I put
the terrain height
in as the
color, it just like full transparencies
me, I guess, is what it would seem. Uh,
can I see that?
Okay.
It just disappears, I guess.
Ah. Um, what's terrain? Oh, wait.
integer varying width must be
flat. Okay, so this is
why integer you
go integer varying width must be
flat. What does that mean?
Oh, it means it must be flat.
Okay. Flat in int.
Okay. Yeah, that's something.
Okay. So, now we just have this like
transparent thing, but it's not getting
colored correctly.
Okay, I think I found a fancy way to do
this.
Okay, let's try that. Is this supposed
to be
in? Oh.
No, this must
be
ring. Oh, wait. With Yeah. No, with an
ider.
Oh. All right. Um
I'm going to go um it looks like
the I'm I'm working on that kind of um
type thing. I think I can find a way to
make it um work well. So, I'm PR that
um I will continue. I mean, yeah. So,
with voids, I got on my machine the the
edge reward working cuz it wasn't
working for me for some reason. Um, so
now I got it working. Now I'm going to
work also on the like other kind of
rewards for that. And yeah, that's kind
of the two things I'm working on now.
Thank you. But yeah, I I guess I'll see
you later.
Go take the day off. The rest of the day
off. Yeah. Thank you. Bye. Right. Bye.
Thanks, Guma.
Oops. Let me fix the ISO back to where
it
was. Suffer training facility. Servers
for training agents. Equipment for
training
me. Discord.
Oh, okay. This is something, right? Like
there's am I wrong that there's
variation
here? I think there is variation here,
right?
Wait. Terrain
height float.
Something weird
here. That's going to be all blue.
And this has this has
contrast. I don't see how this has
contrast. Maybe it just has contrast
because of the variations in height.
Maybe it's still
wrong. Yeah, that's got to be
right. Like
terrain. The goal is to sample from this
terrain buffer.
M client shader
terrain M client shader terrain
data on. So we have shader terrain
data. We have shader terrain
loader terrain data shader terrain
look. You didn't set the
shader value ever, did you? To shader
terrain. Yeah, I didn't shut the set the
shader
value. My guy
That'll freaking do it now, won't it?
Now we have our
data. Any different though? I don't
think it's
any. Well, hang on now. Maybe we have to
divide. Now, this is still uniform
looking. Set the shader. Client
shader. H. No, this is not shader.
This is client target shader.
Wish you would get some sort of errors
with this type of stuff. It's
ridiculous. Target shader gets
shader. So many freaking
bugs. Don't
know. Client shader train data. So then
we get shader terrain location target
shader
terrain. We get target shader has
terrain which is sampler
2D.
Correct.
Set shader terrain
location. Client shader terrain. Fine.
And
then update
texture. Client shader
terrain. Shader terrain data.
set shader value
texture. I believe
It's still not taken. Like what what is
going on here?
UN 8 data gets set.
Let's just pass it to rock. Just check
for dumb things.
Hey, Hyper.
What are you doing
today? Today we are doing terraform.
En goal is to change is to uh well it'll
look a lot cooler once I have the target
map in. The goal is to have bulldozers
terraform this
environment. And we were also doing
earlier today, we built this
environment in which you have tons of
agents running around to different
objectives and uh yeah, it produces
really interesting patterns.
White is RGBA.
Okay. Gen image
color. That is true.
There's probably like a gen image gray
scale.
We already
formatted. I heard if you want to be
better at RL, you get a fourth monitor.
I've only got two here.
I've got my main coding monitor and then
I've got chat and OBS and stuff on this
side. I do suggest the second monitor as
vert
mount. I've used a bunch of setups over
the years and uh this has been my
favorite 27 in uh standard 27inch vert.
Now, don't you know that pro developers,
they only have one monitor and they tab
between everything and they don't and
they unplug the mouse because you don't
need a
mouse. I had the most tryard setup ever
in undergrad. I had like this custom
rice arch install uh on like a random
SLI water cooled machine I put together.
Uh and yeah, it there were driver issues
such that the mouse would just not work
sometimes and I wouldn't notice for
hours. Funny.
We can clamp
them. Custom logistic 3 GV
RAM. Ah, we keep it lightweight.
I mean, with how long that shitty
language takes to compile, I wouldn't be
surprised.
see anything in here that was
actually I didn't see anything from
Brock that was correct.
Oh, let's see what we have here. We get
the
position, get X and Z over the map size.
We clamp them.
We
sample
terrain. This should give you a pixel
value,
right? I'm not seeing anything from
that. Do clamp.
Still
nothing. Well, that tells you it's at
terrain height
zero. So, yeah.
Okay. So, it's it's sampling zero is
what's happening
right now. Why is it sampling zero?
load texture from image.
First of all, this is supposed to be
target
map. No, it's
not. Wait.
How the hell does this thing work?
Okay. So, this is not the
texture that you
want. This probably does go to texture
zero.
Don't
know. It's obnoxious. I will say this is
very obnoxious.
Wait faults and draw a
mesh four times size.
The hell's wrong with this thing?
How did I do this neural MMO? I
literally have an example
here. Come
on. Shader terrain data.
It's allocated.
So bizarre,
man.
Oh. Oh, this is fine.
I can't for the life of me figure out
what the hell's wrong with this
4 *
I 4 * M size * M
size supposed to be an unsigned char.
Yeah, unsigned char.
[Music]
Sunchar allocate. This is only
correct. Build the compile.
Ed and it's Seg faults if the shader
fails. That's so ass.
Okay, Jank.
Black shaders loaded
successfully.
something. I mean, this should now be
literally easiest darn thing. Like one
everywhere.
But we don't get this for some
you know shaders very easy configuring
shaders assign
Oh, Black
so it can't find
anything. God damn it.
Well, I'm not crazy. It's like jank.
Get the shader location targeted
shader. Set the
value shader terrain.
which is
there. Allocate your data.
Update the
texture. Target trader correctly.
It's crazy. Like I literally I think
I've spent more time like debugging
passing values from C to shaders than
actually writing
shaders. Like
overall like what the hell's wrong with
this stupid thing?
supposed to be
pixel. It's It is UV,
right? Totally supposed to be UV.
Still zero. So it's got to be the
terrain texture. It's just zeros.
Yeah.
Terrain. Get shader location.
Extra tiles loop.
the location.
both
of [__] you
Grock piece of [__]
Literally would have been better off
just closing the bloody thing. Always.
Always. Like overall wastes more time
than it
saves. You don't need to update the
texture repeatedly. Yeah, that's
freaking
wrong job.
Now we have target
map.
Sure.
This target map of I
still know.
Huh? Dang.
Still
zero.
Bizarre. Beyond
bizarre. Getting a compile
error. Oh.
Okay. Well, that's freaking
weird, right? That it's
like Yeah, that's
weird. Well, because it's a multiple,
right? Like if I get rid of this
Shouldn't be that dark,
right? So, it's
either Oh, that's dark
blue. Color's correct.
255. Oh, you
Why? That just doesn't make any sense to
me.
You're getting
real. Oh, this is a lot of freaking
zeros. You have stuff in there,
right? Wait, that was supposed to be
normed to
be. These are really low, huh?
So
weird.
Oh. Okay, there we go. There's your
static. Like just fighting my own
debugging. There we go.
Okay, way better.
Delta.
There we go. There's our
delta. We can
uh now
accentuated a little bit. Yeah. So,
there's our delta. Like these are the
regions that need
help. Green. Okay. is way more
visible. But I think we're going to do.
Oh
man, all hunt.
Cool. So now we have like this
transparent fog thing going on.
848. Grind on this a little bit more.
Trying to think how I want this to look.
Now we can
see all the spots where this pokes
through. If we can get this to like
actually render reasonably next
This actually this almost does it
There. Let's just see if it's a color
problem. Oh, yeah. That's way more
freaking visible.
Can't freaking see this is the problem
at
Go back to this for a second.
Okay, that's something
right now. You can clearly see the parts
that are like very heavily off.
Maybe it should be the other way here,
right?
Five.5 is kind of like
weak better. Now what the the question
is, can I get away with doing this to
the other fragment shader so you can
kind of see them
together, right?
heck not work.
Uh, it's definitely changing it, but
like you can't freaking see anything
under
it. How's that make any
sense? Oh, yeah. There's something wrong
with this
because this just cuts it out of the
map.
seems absolute value target height minus
terrain height.
This should not be this way, right?
Like, how does this make any
sense? Is abs. No, abs is a function,
right?
because of this
black. Oh, right. This just gives
you Why does this get cut out entirely?
Is it render
all the regions where you can see the
shader. That's
transparent. Can't see anything behind
it.
I mean, I could potentially make this
thing I could make this thing a shader
on this
technically just like raise this bloody
thing up. Can't I
Okay. So, the fact here is
that there actually isn't
uh there is not a shader portion
here. This seems odd. There should be.
Yeah, there should be a delta
There rain height.
Terrain height zero. Wait,
what like
times? Oh, there you
go. Beautiful pixel effect as
well. I kind of like the pixel effect.
target height.
Here is
your terrain height. Right.
way better. So now you can see frame
height, target height.
Good.
Okay. So now you get both of these. Um
but you don't get to know what is low
and what is high which and that is
bad. Start color and
color. Do a simple
uh
red
green. Hey bet.
This is divide by. So you got to do
0.5. Where is it? It's just this minus
this plus
0.5 or plus
one like this.
There you go. So
now this says this is to
hello. This needs to be filled
in. What this
says? Hang on. So next
Where do we go from
here contrast on that sucks
unfortunately to red to green for now.
Honestly, black to white would kind of
be goated
here like especially this with like
transparency.
You can't do it here, dummy.
Need some more verticality to this
thing.
Not fine.
Yeah, this made it jank, didn't it?
possible to
do possible to get right. You just have
to do the all right offset.
Okay, that's about what we were looking
for here. So now we actually have like
some terrain and there's actually some
verticality to it. You see, we actually
get like
reasonable verticality
here. The mountains
And now max height is still 32,
right? Max height is still
32. We can
go go
here. Welcome YouTube folks. This is uh
for reference. This is Terraform, the
reinforcement learning environment
simulating a bunch of bulldozers pushing
pushing dirt dirt
around. And I am trying to uh get some
nice visuals with these shaders so we
can actually see what the target is
because it's you're trying to terraform
one terrain into a target
terrain. We're trying to figure out some
nice ways to visit
that. Okay. So, this now gives you
Yeah, the coloring is pretty awkward.
has like a kind of a glassy effect to
it, which is kind of cool.
Can't forget what's going on
though. Looks like a quick way to do uh
wires.
I was looking
Four. Yeah, there we go. So, that gives
you
That's not exactly it now, is it?
Janky grid.
I unfortunately it's too late at night
and I've been working too long to
successfully do this manually.
and make us say
puffer. This is a not too hard of a
function, but one, it's not the type of
thing I normally do.
You can do lots of stuff in I just want
a freaking grid function, man. It's not
that
hard. It's like some like abs of like
percent or whatever, but
You know, the thing is it's just I think
it probably just starts to go off the
rails
here. There we go. That wasn't that
hard, now was it?
Nice glowing grid. You see that? Nice
glowing
grid. So, what we'll do is glow. We'll
do Um,
a hole.
Delta here.
Yeah, there we go. That's way closer to
what I'm looking for.
do red instead of
this
better like messy. Okay.
This is right on top of this, right?
There you go. That's actually easier to
see. All
right. I'm just trying to figure out a
good way to show the
um where dirt needs to be put and all.
It's too big.
uh other region other way around. So the
the actual red map is the current map.
And then this is going to be like this
toggleable overlay that shows you where
you're trying to put the
dirt like backwards.
Like this shouldn't be all cyan here.
That's
weird. Is what a parameter of the
N. The target maps are generated. It's
like that's your task.
What do you mean?
No, no. It's It's actually at the moment
it's just trying to turn some mountains
into other mountains.
the target.
Yes. Like these stretched a little bit
as well.
Yeah, we'll fix that.
kind of
working on
it. Little
tricky. Oh, also I'm literally sitting
in darkness here and nobody told me.
Hello. Camera ISO super
low. What happened to
this? Why does this max do weird things?
I literally just have to reach over and
turn the knob for ISO. It's
easy. Okay. So, for this thing here,
like this is
actually this is clean
here versus
before. If I do
this, is it still
clean? Now, see, this is blurriier. So,
actually, I like this effect how it like
it cleanly keeps the lines and then for
some reason it gets smudged like
here. Oh, but it doesn't get smudged.
It's just
really high value there.
should be really high
value. ABS
delta just like that. This is
Maybe this is like a tall mountain. I
don't
know. Now, what about this? Uh why is it
like
black max of
[Music]
glow delta? Ah, this is abs delta.
are way way
better. I get something like this. Very
clean
lines. I don't know why it's like has
such aggressive peaks here, though.
seem to
align. I would expect it. Here it
does. This is
perfect. Then it goes
nuts. See, I write target height.
I'd still do the bandit thing to be
fair.
probably ban this really easily, right?
fast. They just
like Yeah, there you go. Look, that
gives you the contours.
that gives you like these perfect
contoured hills. This is pretty sweet
looking problems with this.
I think one is that
like probably just go like this.
Wait here.
Maybe. Give me this.
Okay, there. So now there's a minimum.
So if there's any difference at all, you
will see
it substantially better, I would say.
Now, this is getting pretty
clean. Now, the uh the last thing is
this bug. Like, what what's going on
here, right? Is this a bug? It shouldn't
be super bright, right? Like, this is
pretty close to a
existing
bump. Why is it that this is so bright?
Um see we take delta
color mix the start color with the end
color by abs
delta target
height minus the terrain height.
Right. Don't need this anymore. Let's
just make sure that this is not getting
anywhere.
Not frag position
Y is wrong, doesn't
it? Wait. Terrain height gets multiplied
by 32.
There we go. That fixes it.
Perfect.
Now can see
um pretty much everything.
even need the
grid. I actually, as much as I like the
grid, I don't know if we need
it. Like, it's freaking cool that you
can have this
effect infinitely, by the way. like this
perfect
blur. I don't think we need it actually.
Right. Go to like comment it. Not going
to delete it. I'm going to comment it
though.
I guess a faint
grid would be it here. Let me let me get
the the non version first.
This is how it looks without. This is
very
clean. Uh, what the Oh, mine is
black. So, this is nice, right?
doesn't seem like the uh the delta is
computed the way I would like it to be.
Like this should start off very faint
here because
it's that this works.
terrain height.
It the one that was super bright, right?
Ultra bright
because definitely not this, right?
So, this says anywhere that you're
over distinct terrain is going to be
ultra bright.
This is like a slightly less bad
version, but it's still ridiculous,
right? Look at
this. Over the terrain and it's
like crazy delta.
I don't know why exactly it's like
this. Can you even
see? Oh, it's because of the I
see. I get it. This has to go under
better. Now you should
get like
smoother smoother
transitions brighter here than here. I
believe here than here because It's
showing you now correctly, more
correctly, the delta to the terrain that
you have to get, not the
actual value of the terrain. And this is
better as
well. Like, yeah, there's some lowlying
stuff
there, stuff there, lowlying stuff
there.
here.
Better. I think that's pretty
solid
overall. Solid.
Let me try the uh
cyan. Hey,
Spencer. Uh oh yeah, that works too. The
sign actually looks just as
good.
Boom. Check this out.
Here is your
overlay. That's where dirt has to move.
I'll back in Discord if you're
around for a bit. Going to bed
soonish. Kind of like the mesh overlay.
It's pretty
busy. Try it, but like it's pretty dang
busy.
No.
not as bad in the same color, I guess.
can leave the mesh in
then. See what Spencer thinks.
reminds me of Enders
game. If you
uh if you haven't already,
um Culture Series on
Audible or or if you prefer to read, I
don't know. I went through the whole
culture series on uh Audible while I was
running last summer. Player of games is
kind of
a better enders
um kind
of but to be honest consider Flebas is
uh not the best book to start
with games you've read
all they're pretty
good I I had them all on Audible while I
was running over the
is the way to go. Hey
Linky got these cool
overlays while linky in Discord.
My bad. I'm just working so I figured
I'd hop in. Good.
later tonight. Yeah, I'm almost done,
man. Don't want to hop in this. Fine.
And I go to freaking dead.
It kind of still aliases with the
shader, huh?
And we're probably going to have it like
this most of the time,
though.
Fine. Rolling around like this. Zoom is
probably the best way to show this
off. Like even like hereish
maybe. Yeah, you don't see me zooming.
We can get first person
technically. I just don't know if it's
super helpful.
Yeah, there's the
shader. Clean it up real quick.
Yes. Make you do this real quick.
I actually think that we should
do hear me out. We should put C handle
camera controls
uh not in this C because you'll actually
be able to use them from EVAL if you put
them elsewhere.
Like if I just do
this. Here's a cool
trick. So, usually you want to put like
the player controls in the C. Yeah. But
um I think specifically for
this want to do like
Now when I Whoa.
Uh, I guess I need to
recompile. So now I can actually use the
controls, right?
from the Python, which is really cool.
Have this in more m.
Is there a reason you dropped pretty
much everything in the H and then you
only have a main function in the C? C is
only for the demo that you run from C.
It's not used for Python.
Okay. I guess I'm curious because I have
a C that has main. I have ah for client
and
then for the
environment. That's
fine. No, you're literally not allowed
to make multiple files. Banned.
We just should not draw these cubes.
like really high noise.
This is pretty good. We got a retrain
policy on
this. I'm going to commit this as
well. Very happy with this.
There you go,
Spencer. Discord general chat beep bolt.
A the pain of the
bright. Too
bright. 96. Very
nice. Wait, this is epoch. I'm
dumb. Oh, holy hell. Yeah. Okay.
Yeah.
Hey, Spencer.
Yo, I'm working on this. Did you see my
message on the sweep? You You wrecked it
with the sweep. Good.
Very good. This thing's nuts. It's like
score like 1400 and peaked at like
3,000.
Yeah. Uh, time for
terraform. I have done my part with the
shaders for now.
Did you change any of the learning at
all or is this um I slightly changed the
terrain? I slightly changed the terrain.
Jen,
the hills, but not anything that's like
straight learning process.
No, just the hills will be higher.
Oh, all right. That's fine.
Uh the curve looks the same as
before you changed. Let me let's just
get your params
actually. Let's do your params.
Yeah, I think that 4202 one is the best
one of the sweep. Filling your params.
Now is this 60? Oh, that's only 67
million,
dude. That's not bad.
I mean, I'm on my phone, so I don't have
like the best of control of Neptune, but
it looks like that was the highest
scored one. I'm getting
it. Super low atom beta
1 atom beta
horizon
co jagged
training. Uh the episodes are really
long. It's expected.
I I got to get a shower, man. I haven't
freaking I got up and just coded all
day. All right, I'm going to switch back
to um X so I can see this. I want to see
what it looks like.
Thank you, dispenser, for these
parameters.
Oh, did you kill stream or is it
I'm live?
I don't know. Never mind. App was just
being weird.
This thing only ran 50 mil, my guy.
I I can say I haven't seen the Twitter
stream in quite some time. Like I can
see it on Twitch and YouTube, but not on
Twitter. Um,
Spencer, the [__] did you
[Music]
do? Man's running freaking reinforce
with value function coefficient zero.
Did you do reward kills?
Vince, you're going to have to PR your
changes.
My changes. You added reset. You added
stuff as params.
Oh, I can hack it for now, but I would
like you to PR these when you can. Yeah,
I can't PR that at this minute. Fine.
It looks like the the zero VF
coefficient is very sus. Yeah, you're
running reinforced, dude. Like, what
what are you doing?
I'll run this whatever,
though. Did it run the wrong sweep
thing?
No, you just
sus all the folks on YouTube at this
hour joining me on Saturday.
Um, you know, you can play with this M
too. It's open source. It's just
everything we're pushing. It's just
going to the 30 branch of puffer liib
puffer.ai for all the stuff and uh you
can actually come dev on this with us as
well. We like open source contributors.
We train people on RL if you're trying
to get into it. Lots of fun stuff.
But also start the GitHub. Are you
pring? Sorry. Are you pring any infra
updates to 3.0 auto or is that safe for
me to like start using
uh end binding stuff? Most likely minor
fixes.
Minor fixes only. I just meant like
you're not going to be really touching
top RL or any of that. Minor fixes only
are
expected. All right.
Oh, yeah. This thing does awful. So,
like what? I'm
confused. Spencer sent me this jank ass
sweep.
says it's only trained
[Music]
for How the hell does this make
any num m agents 3232
too is
eight. Like I don't even see how it
would be possible for this thing to
repro.
seconds.
Oh, Spencer, you noob.
And you just you you noobed it. Okay,
look. Freaking
controlled. You [__] ran it down. You
ined whatever the game lingo you want.
Look, swept
this. Okay. And then you forgot to
normalize by it. The score is just
reporting this.
You basically did
this and lo and
behold, you get like 100x higher
score. I'll run it for the hell of it,
but I don't expect this policy to be
great.
No, it's not a rewards tuning issue.
It's a reporting issue. You can't have
score dependent on the magnitude of
reward when you're sweeping magnitude of
reward. If you were going to do that,
then you have to do something like, you
know, total dirt moved or something like
you need something that's not tied to
the reward magnitude or you at least
have to normalize by the reward
magnitude. Oh, it does so
amazing, but not really.
and then it doesn't really reproduce on
top of that.
Well, this is the reward scale factor,
Spencer, but like the score is currently
just summing the rewards. You would have
to normalize the score independently.
The score would become separate from the
episode return.
Basically, you just like divide by
reward coefficient or
something for
score. So, this doesn't freaking work.
What do we What do we think is similar
to
this? You sweeped good.
the breakout params for now.
I'm going to use these are the breakout
params that are sub 20
seconds if they
work. Probably needs to go for longer
than this.
do this
one. Here's what we'll do. I'll give you
a strong
baseline. I'm going to bed.
All
right.
mill Five.
Not the best reward curves.
they're carving. Look at this. They're
carving through this terrain.
When they build
hills, that's a lot of like work to
build
that
crazy terraform
agents. Yo, Spencer, this is actually
like probably a way harder uh task than
construction in
Minecraft, just FYI. So,
like it's kind of crazy that we get this
to work.
This has not even been
swept. These hypers probably
suck. Like I haven't even done this yet.
H like
worse experiment.
See, and I'm absolutely going to
bed. Got to get up to run tomorrow.
That's better.
Well, they're
terraforming at this like
progress on this hill.
Yeah, Spencer, I think we got to play
with the dynamics a bit so that they
don't get stuck so much and know we make
sure it's really like a sane
task cuz like we see a lot of this type
of a thing still where it's like stuck
in a hill.
For all I know, it could be them dumping
dirt on each
other. Have to iterate a little bit,
but solid solid start.
Yeah, this is not visually impressive.
Like the actual what the agents are
doing is not yet visually impressive
enough yet. We need like a sweep, maybe
some data
tweaks, get them to actually do
it properly.
properly. I'm going to commit this up
for now and give this to you to run
sweeps on.
I have been streaming for how the hell
long did I? Let's go
check. I kind of didn't notice. Like I
kind of just did a bunch of stuff and
didn't notice, you know.
Okay, this is 3
hoursish and this was 7
hours. So, I've been live 10 11 plus
hours maybe. I don't know. Oh, no. Cuz
there was a before breakfast portion
too, wasn't there? Yeah, there was
another two hours.
So 9 and a
half. Oh yeah, I've been live for like
13 hours. Okay.
Jeez. Well, yes, Spencer, run some
sweeps if you have some time.
Um, lighting is awful at the moment, but
hey, we are for the folks on YouTube.
Um, buffer.ai for all the things. I have
no idea why the camera's this
laggy. Buffer.ai for all the things. I'm
exhausted.
I'm going to get some rest. I will be
back on Monday with more live
dev start the GitHub to help us
out. If you want to get involved with
dev, join the
Discord. It's a fun time. Other than
that, you can follow me on X for more RL
content. Thank you, and I will be back
Monday. Night.